>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
let's pseudocode adding a node.
What might a node look like, or a vertex?
>> off screen female: It's another row and
column into our matrix.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> off screen male: It's one or the other-
>> off screen female: It's just a value.
It's both, right?
>> off screen male: Well no, because
the values are the edges, right?
>> off screen female: It's both of
them.
>> off screen male: But
one or the other, right?
The combination of the two is an edge,
right?
>> off screen male: The pairing of
a column and a row is an edge,
right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: The pairing of
a column and a row is an edge, yes.
So here, 1 and 2, here's our edge.
>> off screen male: But
just 1 or just 2 is a node?
>> off screen female: It's between
the two.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
you're asking, how do we represent this?
>> off screen female: Mm-hm.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, we're gonna
get there in a second.
>> off screen male: Okay,
sorry.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Actually,
we can go there now.
You wanna go there now?
So that's the big question with
the adjacency matrix is so,
depending on the data
that you're representing,
how are we gonna store this and
what value does it hold?
I usually recommend that we use a hashing
algorithm or a hash table to store these
and link it up to a index, right?
So we want whatever our value is.
Or whatever it is, right,
some object maybe, to hash.
Actually, it's probably gonna
be a string on the object.
We want it to hash into some index
that's between maybe some range,
maybe we have an expected
range the size of our graph.
So then, this here is only representing
the relationships, but perhaps for
storing the actual value in an auxiliary
data structure like a hash table,
which we'll talk about tomorrow.
But essentially a hash
table is just an object,
like a-
>> off screen female: Like a reference to
what is where.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so for example,
we have an object with the key 1 and
the value would be whatever our value is,
whatever this node
actually is representing.
If it's a city name, it might be St.
Paul, Minnesota, or whatever.
But we're not gonna store it in an index,
right?
And our adjacency matrix expects,
because they're arrays,
expects a numeric index
that's a positive integer.
So yeah, don't worry,
I'm not going to ask you
to do that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay,
so we're just gonna assume
all of our nodes have a value
that's an integer that's less than ten.
Just to make our life simple.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So,
what did we say, how do we add it?
>> off screen male: This is where
I was confused.
Like, do you add it to both,
does it become a column and a row?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> off screen female: How do you
decide where to put it?
>> off screen male: Before that,
why do we initialize
in the constructor and
add up on that?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Why do we initialize
the constructor and what?
>> off screen male: To add inward,
we initialize a value in the constructor?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
so you're saying to add
a note that we should
initialize the constructor?
>> off screen male: As initializing
matrix, we intitialize
a value in the constructor.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm, yeah,
so you're saying instead of adding
the column and a row, when we add a node,
maybe we just initialize
a matrix that's predefined and
we'll just pop it in there.
>> off screen male: Is there one value or
two value?
At the beginning, we initialize and
then add the node on that one?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So the question
is when we initialize our graph,
are we initializing a value with it?
Yeah, yeah, probably, right?
You'll probably initialize
it with at least one value.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I can buy that.
It makes sense to me.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
so we have a question here.
The question is, how do we add the node?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What were our
two things that we were gonna say?
Do we add,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: To
an already existing matrix or
do we add a column every time,
column row every time.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What
do you think is gonna be the easiest?
And again, let's just assume,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Assume node
is a positive integer between 1 and
10, or 0 and 10.
>> off screen male: So I mean,
if the value was already
represented as a column row,
we wouldn't add it again, right.
Cuz that would mean that
we would increase the,
>> off screen male: Well,
in the ones we saw already,
there weren't repeating nodes so
I would think we would not add
another one if we try to add,
right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
you're saying that-
>> off screen male: Like if we already had
zero, one, two, three, four as both rows
and columns, and then we went to add two.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
you're saying maybe we initialize
the entire matrix at the beginning.
That seems like it's easier than
starting out with maybe a matrix
that's one by one.
>> off screen male: Right, I mean,
I guess if we weren't expecting to have
all the values we could just do a check.
I don't know.
I guess it sort of depends on what
the purpose of the matrix is.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, exactly, so
the thing about this matrix is that,
since we know our values
are gonna be between 0 and 10,
we can also use these numbers,
not only to represent the value, but
to also represent the order
in which they are added.
So depending on what you're doing, right?
So if it's the order in which
they're added, so the first element,
whatever value it may have, right,
we can save the value somewhere
else with the same key.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We
can keep adding columns and
rows every time.
However, what was the other case
that I just lost from my head?
The second case?
Amnesia.
The first case was these numbers
represent the order in
which we add a node.
Second case is these actually represent
the value.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Does that make sense?
So for the case where we are using
these numbers to represent the value
that we're adding, right, so
what if the first thing we add is 5?
And that's an index, right?
If you look at our adjacency matrix,
these are arrays.
So 5 is gonna be here.
And we need to have an array of 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, well, 5 by 5.
[LAUGH] I can count.
Initialized at that point.
So again, it comes down to what
specific thing are you doing.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, what else,
what else do I wanna
put in your brain about
this?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
is it the value?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Is it the order?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So much power,
so many options, so
many questions to answer.